## Project Notes

#### Shiv Venkatagiri

### Final list of Columns selected per datasets:

#### Compas:

* Selected attributes divided into 4 cases, similar to Justin's paper on Fairness in ML. Selected attributes:
  X : {age,race,sex}
  Y : {is_recid}
  Z : {race,sex}
  W : {priors_count, c_}

#### German Credit Dataset

* On a similar basis to the above:
  X : {age_factor, sex, job}
  Y : {credit}
  Z : {age_factor, sex}
  W : {credit_history, present_employment}

  ** Note: the column "sex" is mislabeled as "status", and vice versa. The code will this refer to "sex" as "status".

### Classifier performance on all attribues:
* Compas Dataset:
  - With 5-Fold cross validation: Model accuracies:  [0.65020243 0.65587045 0.63209076 0.67341977 0.63533225]
                                  Average:  
  - On a test set: 0.6609071274298056    

* German Dataset:
  - With 5-Fold cross validation: Model accuracies:  [0.705 0.7   0.7   0.68  0.7  ]
                                  Average:  0.697
  - On a test set: 0.7266666666666667

  F1 metrics can be computed

#### Potential causal graphs: Graphs folder

##### Graph Generation process:

The attributes under consideration from the COMPAS dataset are:
  - Sensitive Attributes: {Race, Gender}
  - X : {Age}
  - Target Attribute: {Recidivism y/n}
  - Mediating Variables : Chosen based on criminal history {Prior Counts, Charge Degree}
  
We experimented with three different settings of the sensitive attributes {Race}:
  - African American vs Others
  - African American vs Caucasian
  - All categories- African American, Caucasian, Others, Hispanic, Asian, Native American. 
    
Generated independencies (as seen in experiment_log) with different errors in each of the above categories: 
ranging from 0.01 to 0.1 in step of 0.05 each. 

The lower limit was chosen as 0.01 because anything below it gives no 
independencies. This might be because our limited sample size, the error threshold might be too small to declare two 
variables independent. The upper limit on choice of independencies depends on the both the viability of the graph 
(encoding of impossible independencies: Eg. A_|_B, A_|_B|C, but A & C are dependent, and B and C are dependent), 
and a sensitive attribute being independent of the outcome Y. 

The chosen set of independencies: 
  - sex \_|\_ age_cat | [] 

The above is common for all three settings, with the error delta d = 0.025 (2.5% error). A sample graph can be found in
../graphs. Since there is only one independency, the assiciated causal graph is a fully connected, directed, acyclic
 graph on six variables missing only one edge (the independency encoded). The entire set of graphs can be generated by 
 replacing any of the arrows by a bi-directed arrow between the two variables.  
 
